---
title: "TA_COMP101 - Introduction To Programming"
collection: teaching
type: "Level 4 FHEQ"
permalink: /teaching/1COMP101
venue: "University of Liverpool,  Department Of Computer Science"
date: 2021-09-24
location: "Liveropol, Uk"
---

## COMP101 - Introduction To Programming

- Period: Week 3 - Week 10 in 2021-22 First Semester
- Module leader: [Mr Keith Dures](https://www.liverpool.ac.uk/computer-science/staff/keith-dures/)
- Location: George Holt Building, 7 Ashton St, Liverpool, L69 3GJ, England

In this module, my main responsibilities are: 

1. Prepare the content that will be used in each session

   The lecturer sends the materials that will be used in the following week at each weekend. After receiving the material, I usually do the experiments in advance to remember the key points and difficult parts. Ensure I can give full answers to students' questions. Before the lab session begins, I usually prepare the material to be presented in advance, or upload it to the presentation computer via [Remote Teaching Centre Service](https://www.liverpool.ac.uk/it/pc-centres/remote/).

2. Leading the Lab sessions each week.

   One lab session usually lasts an hour. I will spend the first 5 to 10 minutes telling everyone what they need to practice in the session, and then give them 40 minutes to practice. I use the last 10 minutes to demonstrate the correct solution or explain common problems.

3. Assistance, evaluation of student program coding in real time

   During the 40 minutes that belong to the students for practice, I usually patrol the lab to answer questions that students encountered. I also check the code individually to make sure that students have learned the content of the class.

## What I have learned

1. Improve my presentation ability

   Each session required a demonstration of the correct way to write a program, so I improved my presentation skills  during  practise for this repeatedly in the preparation phase.

2. Ways to  foster positive interactions between students

   During the students' own practice, I encouraged them to ask questions and encouraging them to communicate with each other. At the end of the semester, the students were more active than at the beginning.

