---
title: "TA_COMP207 - Database Development"
collection: teaching
type: "Level 5 FHEQ"
permalink: /teaching/2COMP207
venue: "University of Liverpool,  Department Of Computer Science"
date: 2021-09-24
location: "Liveropol, Uk"
---

## COMP207 - Database Development

- Period: Week 3 - Week 11 in 2021-22 First Semester
- Module  lecturer: [Dr Rasmus Ibsen-Jensen](https://www.liverpool.ac.uk/computer-science/staff/rasmus-ibsen-jensen/)
- Location: Walker Building, 150 Brownlow Hill, Liverpool, England

## Main duties and responsibilities:

1. Prepare the content

   The lecturer normally prepares the problems to be used in the lab sessions in advance. After receiving the content, I usually go through the questions, make my own solutions and think about how to deliver them to students.

2. Explaining solutions in the lab sessions, and answering questions

   The lab sessions in this module are usually based on problem solving. I usually divide the one-hour session time into two halves. One half is given to the students to practice the problems and I usually work with another teaching assistant to answer students' questions. Another half hour is for our demonstration, and I usually allocate tasks with another TA to demonstrate the solutions.

## What I have learned

1. Consolidated knowledge

   For this module, I participated in a total of 28 hours of tuition, which helped me to thoroughly consolidate my knowledge of databases. 

2. Improved communication skills

   Working in collaboration with another TA and in face-to-face situations to answer students' questions has improved my understanding of issues and my ability to express ideas in simple words.
