---
title: "TA_COMP220 - Software Development Tools"
collection: teaching
type: "Level 5 FHEQ"
permalink: /teaching/4COMP220
venue: "University of Liverpool,  Department Of Computer Science"
date: 2022-01
location: "Liveropol, Uk"
---

Please click on the link for more information
## COMP220 - Software Development Tools

- Period: Week 2 - Week 10 in 2021-22 Second Semester
- Module  lecturer: [Mr Sebastian Coope](https://www.liverpool.ac.uk/computer-science/staff/sebastian-coope/teaching-and-learning/)
- Location: George Holt Building, 7 Ashton St, Liverpool, L69 3GJ, England

## Main duties and responsibilities:

1. Planning tasks

   The lecturer set broad targets for each lab session (usually two or three weeks to complete one target) and I found that the students were confused about what they were supposed to do. After communicating with the lecturer, I set targets for each week by myself, and got the lecturer's approval. I then found in practice that the students knew what they were supposed to do and were keeping up with the progress initially set by the lecturer.

2. Leading the Lab sessions each week.

   After I have defined the tasks for each lab session, the rest of the time is given to the students to practice on their own.

3. Assistance, evaluation of student codes in real time

   During the students' own practice, I check each person's progress and answer questions to ensure that everyone is keeping up.

## What I have learned

1. Understanding of student learning needs: 

   By working closely with the students, I was able to gain insight into everyone's needs and preferences and make adjustments to myself in time. In this module, I noticed on time that the students were not responding well to the objectives set by the lecturer, and I quickly communicated with the lecturer to list more detailed objectives so that the students were all on track.
